Dory painted a lot of doors.
That's what Tim...
I saw that.
Yes, that's what Brian Lawrence told me.
You know Grand Door, down where we lived, down by the bridge?
Dory built those houses there.
Yes, he was a painter.
And they were painted. Some of the door panels in there were painted.
I heard that.
And he also invented a machine that planed the wood and put grooves in it.
And if you go in there, all the doors and the frames have got this wood.
And like there's five grooves in the middle.
Really?
And the planer did that and cut grooves as he did it.
So everything he did, he used this planer.
And that was George Dory? George Dory.
Well, one of the Dory, the old Dory, I suppose.
He lived down where the doctor's surgery is as well.
He built all those houses there.
Brinkoid? No, Kai Herbert Lane.
Yes, Sunnyfield, didn't he?
He built Sunny...
Is it Sunnyfield or Sunnyside?
It's Sunnyside, yes. That's right, the Evans family.
And the houses in front.
Because Sunnyside were built of what he had left from the other houses.
From the ones on East Street?
Yes.
Oh, I see.
At the back.
Oh, are they?
Yeah, you know, the cement and everything was pretty poor.
Well, I mean, they've been done up chiefly now.
But they used to be all the windowsills were like concrete
and they would fall into bits.
They had new windows and new windowsills all the years.
Oh dear.
Well, they're still standing, aren't they?
Oh, that's right, you know.
Yes, and friends of mine were born there.
You know, the Evans family, Cheryl and Janet.
I can't remember who lived there when I was young.
Of course, this was the far end of town.
Beyond the pale, isn't it?
Yeah, you didn't come beyond the clock.
Oh, there we are.
Oh, right, and Glandour was exactly where?
Tell me again.
You know, where you turn down to the last arc.
Yes.
On the corner there now.
Of course, of course, it's a holiday home.
It's the Mid Wales holiday let's, isn't it?
Yeah, that's right, because it was full of foreigners this last weekend.
There were three foreign cars there, I noticed.
Really?
Yeah.
It's wonderful to see them all there.
And he built that and the next door to it.
And then I think Bernard's father built the two closest to the bridge.
You know, but the Doreys' houses were quite different to Lloyd's houses, if you like.
So the Doreys, they've been in this area for a long time then, have they?
Well, it must have been like 1900s anyway.
Yes, and the Lloyd family, of course, they've been... Bernard Lloyd, well, there's so many Lloyds.
Yeah, well...
Are you related to them?
Yes, yes.
You must be.
Bernard is like... he was the first cousin to my father.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
And then the generation before.
The Lloyds actually, it turns out by what I can understand, came from Levant.
They were sheep, drovers.
Right.
And they ended up, when the railway came, that was when they came here, they ended up in St. Arlen
because the railway came and they drove the sheep to the railway and then settled there.
Oh, yeah.
Because I was standing on a grave outside the church gate there at some big funeral a few years ago.
And somebody came and said, you know whose grave you're standing on?
And I said, no.
And they said, well, he's a relation of yours, you look at it.
Oh, yeah.
And it was a Lloyd.
Wow, wow.
And reading between the lines, nobody's ever told it to me, but reading the lines,
he was most likely the first one who settled like in St. Armen and got buried there.
Well, there we are.
You can chase it back.
I'm wondering though, the memorial stoned Jimmy Lloyd now,
are any of his family interested in taking it on, still going on with that type of work?
I think his daughter-in-law does a bit with Jimmy.
His son, no, yeah, his daughter-in-law, that would be wouldn't it?
His son's wife.
Yeah, yeah.
And I mean, I don't know because David, Jimmy's son, is too settled in what he does.
He traps the new town every day.
Yeah, yeah.
But his wife, and I do know the children, he's got a couple of boys, isn't he, I think?
I really don't know much about this.
I think he has got a couple of boys, because there's no Lloyds coming at all, you know, no male Lloyds.
But I did wonder about the memorial stone business, because that's been in the family for a while.
Well, since 1900 at least, if not earlier.
Like Ben.
Ben, Ben Lloyd.
Ben was really the, I suppose he was the first.
Didn't he do something in the Houses of Parliament?
He did things all over the place, like, you know, he was a true artist, I should imagine,
because my father used to say, oh, well, uncle, he'd have been an uncle to my father.
And dad used to say, well, Ben was one of these who did a project, like in Glasgow, if you like,
and then he came home and fiddled around for a year while he spent the money.
And then when he spent the money, he went out and did another one.
He did an art that he operated, right?
Well, you know, I don't suppose it was as bad as that, but that was the way it was told to me.
He did a project somewhere and then he lived off the profit for as long as it lasted,
kind of thing, before he did the next one.
And I mean, he did some work, the Fountains in Lucerne.
Indeed.
I believe. And also Princess Street in Edinburgh, isn't it?
The statue down the middle of that, he did some of the parts of that.
Did he?
Yes.
So I mean, he must have been internationally known then, wasn't he?
To get jobs like that.
And when you look, the war memorials all over Blooming Wales are done by him.
Yes.
Oh, most interesting.
But he would have been like an uncle to my father.
And then the other one was Bernard's father, who was a brother to him.
I can't remember Bernard's father.
He died like in 1939, I think. Something like that.
Whereas Uncle Ben, who was Jimmy's grandfather, I can remember him quite plain.
Well, you know, he must have lived until the 50s, I think.
Or the late 40s at least.
Right.